In this lecture, we are going to see how we can use this olama to act as an API server, which you
can use to retrieve the the model or communicate with the model using an API request.
So basically you can see that using this Olama and you can see that they have got this option called
as serve.
So Olama serve.
So we just hit enter.
You will see that currently my port is bound with this particular IP address.
So basically I'm already running the Olama in the service as like up and running all the time.
That's the reason why it says that the the address is already bound.
And but if you're going to be running this olama serve in your terminal, you will notice that it is
going to be starting as a service for you by listening to this particular port.
Number 11434.
So this is the port number that we are going to be using quite a lot, starting our next section while
we communicate with the Olama.
So the way we are going to write the code in our starting.
Our next section is going to be talking to the large language model with the Olama only using the API
server, which is this API server.
So when I say API server, we're just going to go over here.
And if I just type localhost of the port number 11434, and if I just say API and if I hit enter oh
sorry.
And if I hit enter like that you'll see that the olama is running.
So you get the response like Olama is running.
And if you see just go to the uh, 143 API generate and you can also pass the body over here.
So if I just go to my browser and if I just search for Olama, you'll notice that these are the API
documentation of the Olama.
And you can see that they have got all the details of the APIs that you can use with the Olama over
here, you see that they have got the in the generate.
You can pass the model and the prompt that you want to ask, and then you get the response from the
particular model.
So if I just go to the postman over here and let's say if I'm going to ask the question, uh, something
like this, and the model is going to be llama 3.2 that they have used.
And let's see if I have got the model.
Yeah, I have got the llama 3.2.
So I'm just gonna leave it as it is.
And I'm going to say, why is Sky, uh, blue and this is going to be a post operation that we have
to do.
And if I just ask this question, you'll notice that we are going to get a response from the model over
here, the large language model that we are getting over here.
But you see that we are getting the response in like one by one, uh, like one word at a time as a
response.
But we can stream this particular response as well if we wanted to.
So if you just go back to the documentation over here, this is the response that you get.
And over here they also have got something called a stream as a false, uh, over here.
And I'm just going to leave the stream as false over here.
And now if I try to send it over here, you will notice that it's not really streaming the data, but
it's going to send you all the data in a chunk for you immediately.
Something like this.
And you see that we get the response over here.
So this is how we get the entire response.
So why is the sky blue.
It says that the reason why the sky appears blue is a fascinating phenomenon that involves a combination
of physics, lights and our atmosphere.
And it gives all the details over there.
So this is how we can see that.
We can use the the APIs of the llama to communicate with our large language model using Olama.
So olama serve.
You need to run to make sure that you can communicate with your Olama.
So starting our next section, we are going to communicate with this Olama with a large language model
only using these APIs.
So either you run them as a service like me, like how I'm doing it, or you can run this Olama serve
command in the terminal so that you can now start communicating with your, uh, with the lamp chain
with the olama starting in the next section.
So this ends the section of the Olama and how you can use Olama to run your large language models.